[THEME MUSIC]
>> Throughout modern history,
the moon has been woven
into legend and lore.
Most have associated our
moon with strange anomalies,
psychic phenomenon, and many
other tales from the dark side.
This natural satellite is known
to control the Earth's tides,
cycles, and patterns.
But as the Younger Dryas
period came to an abrupt end,
and the mighty oceans
continued to rapidly grow,
many alternative
researchers have
pointed to lunar
clues that reshape
our understanding of
our perfectly sized
and placed celestial partner.
Could the brightest and
largest object in our night sky
play a much larger role
in creating a balance
on this new watery planet of
this majestic solar system?
>> One of the greatest mysteries
in our world and our solar
system today, is a mystery that
is so obvious that some people
simply take it for granted.
And that is the
existence of our moon.
Our moon is one of the
most mysterious moons
in the entire solar system
for a number of reasons.
When we begin to look at the
mathematics of our relationship
to the moon, what we
find is a precision
that exceeds anything that we
would expect to see in nature.
For example, the distance
between the Earth and the moon
is exactly 108 moons, 108
diameters between the Earth
and the moon.
This number comes up very
frequently in the Hindu
and the Buddhist 108 is the
number of beads on the mandalas
that are used in the prayer.
And the number is used to honor
our relationship to the cosmos,
and in the cosmology.
This is what we're told
in these traditions.
Then you begin to
look even further.
The distance between
the Earth and the sun
is exactly 108 Suns.
Can this be a coincidence, or
is this something that nature
would do on its own?
>> There are a lot of
interesting facts and mysteries
surrounding the moon.
It's a unique relationship we've
never observed anywhere else
in the known
universe, as far as we
can tell, a relationship
between a moon and a planet,
quite like what we
have on planet Earth
with our moon today.
>> Of all of the planets
in our solar system,
our moon is the largest moon
relative to the planet that
orbits than any other
planet in the solar system.
Our moon is fully a quarter
of the size of our planet.
>> It's a very anomalous object.
In fact, some of the quotes in
the early days of lunar studies
was saying it's easier to
explain why the moon shouldn't
exist than why it does exist.
Or all theories of the lunar
origin don't make sense.
And so we're still
confronted with that.
We're still, I think,
struggling with this idea of how
the moon came to be what it is.
>> According to
mainstream science,
there are three prevailing
theories on the origin
of the moon.
The first proposes
that the moon and Earth
were created around the same
time, when the solar system was
forming, roughly 4 to
4.5 billion years ago.
The second theory
is that the moon
was created somewhere else, and
migrated into our solar system,
and was captured by the
gravitational forces
of the Earth.
The third, and most
controversial theory,
is that there was a
collision between Earth
and a protoplanet named Theia.
The debris from this collision
eventually formed into the moon
as we know it.
Since the late 1960s,
alternative researchers
and skeptics of the
mainstream theories
remain focused on an
Apollo 12 misfortune that
sparked a string of new theories
about the origin, structure,
and purpose of this
strangely perfect sphere.
>> Apollo 12 astronauts, when
they were leaving the moon,
jettisoned their lunar
lander, causing it to impact
on the surface.
It caused the moon
to resonate and ring
like a bell for over an hour.
This shocked NASA
scientists, and they
try to replicate that
situation during Apollo 13.
And so they sent an intentional
impact down to the surface,
causing it to resonate
for over three hours.
So to put this in a
little bit of perspective,
if we have a seismic
event on the planet,
those only last for a
few moments in time.
>> When the Apollo astronauts
were doing the seismic
activity, they created
seismic waves on the surface,
and the idea is to measure the
amount of time that those waves
take to travel from the surface
into the core and come back
to the surface.
On Earth, seismic
waves typically
take maybe two minutes.
When there's an impact,
the term is it will ring,
and it will ring for
maybe two minutes,
and then the ringing stops.
On the moon, famously
the astronauts
said that it was
ringing like a bell,
meaning that the ring continued
long beyond that two minutes,
typically around 10
minutes, and in some cases,
it lasted for hours.
That is only possible
if those seismic waves
are moving through material
as well as empty space
or some space that is
less dense that allows
the propagation of those waves.
If the material is more dense,
it will soak up those waves.
So this is one of
the reasons it is
what is called the
ringing of the moon
that leads to speculation that
the moon may not be solid.
When we talk about
hollow, we don't
know if it means that it is
hollow like a sphere that
is empty inside,
but very possibly
beneath the surface,
deeply filled
with caverns or possibly
large spaces that are open
and then other spaces that
become gradually more dense.
>> Studies from NASA and also
from other space agencies have
also shown that there seems
to be gravitational anomalies
on the moon.
In other words, the density of
the moon may not be consistent.
And so potentially you could
theorize that a reason for this
might be that there are
cavities in the moon.
It may not be entirely solid.
>> As the discoveries during
the space race surfaced,
writers began weaving
alternative scientific theories
with fictional tales, cementing
the mystery of the moon
into popular culture.
Four years after the
Apollo 12 mission,
British rock band Pink Floyd
released their eighth studio
album, "The Dark
Side of the Moon."
This iconic album title
influenced millions
to question why do we never
see the dark side of the moon?
>> One of the ironies that we
see is what is called the tidal
lock, T-I-D-A-L lock.
And what this means is that
the rotation of the moon
exerts exactly equals one
orbit around the Earth,
which leads us to only
see one view of the moon.
No matter where we
are on Earth, we
will never see what is called
the dark side of the moon,
because that rotation
as it's moving
is exactly locked into
rotation of our planet.
It looks to us like
the moon is not moving.
No other moon in our solar
system has such a rotation.
>> The moon's total mass and its
assumed volume and its assumed
mass and density are such that
it should have settled out
to this form of a sphere.
The problem is
that a sphere would
have a single center of mass,
a single moment of inertia,
which means that it would be
free to rotate on any axis,
but that's not what's
happening, because the moon's
rotation on its axis is
completely and precisely locked
in to its period of
orbit around the Earth.
Now, what does that imply?
It implies that the
mass of the moon
is not distributed
radially symmetrical
about its center of mass.
Right there, that's
a huge anomaly,
because the moon
should have settled out
to a spherical
shape, and then there
would be no coupling between the
moon's rotation and its orbit.
But there is this coupling,
what's called a one-to-one spin
orbit coupling.
So that in itself is anomalous.
Why has the moon not done it?
Well, it implies that something
within the lunar crust
is extremely rigid.
>> When the Apollo astronauts
began exploring the surface
geologically, even they were
surprised at the results
of some of the tests
that they found.
One of the most
mysterious factors
is the moon obviously has
many craters around it
of different sizes, presumably
from different impacts
from objects of different sizes.
And you would
expect those impacts
to go to varying depths because
of the velocity of the impact.
What the astronauts found
is, yes, the craters
vary in diameter, but they
all go to about the same depth
as if they are hitting some kind
of a mysterious boundary that
will not allow them
to go any deeper.
>> You can look up at
the face of the moon,
and you see these gray
splotches on the moon.
Those are called the maria.
The maria are sort
of like lava plains.
They're basaltic rock.
They're circular more or less.
Some of them are very
circular, almost certainly
caused by impacts.
Well, when you have a crater
that's, say, 200 miles wide,
it should be 20 miles deep.
But on the moon, once you get
to about a three-mile depth,
they continue to get wider,
but they don't get any deeper.
It's almost like you're
trying to throw something
against like a
tank or something.
It's so hard and so resistant
that craters are not
excavated to 20 miles deep.
So you've got this
extremely rigid crust,
which is inexplicable.
This is really
only the beginning.
Then there's the
mass concentrations
that were discovered when
the lunar orbiters back
in the early '70s were going
around the moon passing
over the Great Maria.
They would pass over the center,
and as they're going along,
all of a sudden they
dip in their orbit
because there was some
tremendous gravitational pull
that literally caused
them to deflect downward.
It followed that
whatever was causing
this extreme gravitational pull
had to be near the surface.
So what kind of an
object could do that?
Well, they came up with
a hypothetical object
that would be like
a piece of cast-iron
like 100 miles in diameter.
So in other words,
again, it's more evidence
that the crust of the moon is
extremely strong and extremely
rigid.
What are these mascons?
Nobody knows.
>> As astonishing
synchronicities around the size
and orbit of the moon drive
alternative researchers deeper
into the mystery, evidence is
mounting that this anomalous
structure in our night sky is
even stranger than fiction.
>> The evidence now strongly
leads to the proposition that
there is a fourth possibility
for the origin of our moon
in addition to the three that
are accepted in traditional
science and that is the
possibility that the moon is
an artificial body intentionally
engineered either in place
or brought from somewhere
else a long time ago.
When we begin looking at the
mathematics of the moon itself,
this is where we know beyond any
shadow of a doubt that nature
cannot provide for the
circumstances that we see
in the moon today.
First of all, the orbit
of the moon itself,
typically the moons
that orbit the planets
in our solar system, they
orbit at the equator.
Our moon is offset
exactly 6.7 degrees
from the equator, which
happens to be precisely
the location that is
required to stabilize
the rotation of our Earth
so that it doesn't wobble,
to stabilize the tides and
the rhythms that allow life
to be as it is, both marine
and terrestrial life as it is.
If the moon were
not there, we would
have a more erratic orbit.
We would have exceedingly
erratic tides, very high tides,
very low tides, and
differing times,
not the rhythms
that we see today.
>> When we look up at the
moon, we really don't know what
we're looking at.
But when the ancients
looked up at the moon,
they looked at it
as something that
was brought here intentionally.
Now, what if we just
speculate and think, well,
what if the moon was brought
here with the intention
to calm down the planet?
I mean, think
about what happened
during the Younger Dryas,
the cataclysmic beating
that the Earth took.
It was going to
require something
to calm down the seas, calm
down the volcanic activity.
What if that's what the
moon was brought here for,
as this stabilizing force
so that civilization
could ultimately
come to a plateau
but then also
flourish afterward?
>> If there was a time of
no moon and then a moon was
created to stabilize the
energies of the Earth,
what we do know is the moon
not only controls the tides
but controls the
underground waters as well.
And if they're going out
of control in an impact,
in a kind of end of
the world situation,
then you're going to be jarred
from the inside out as well.
So if the moon was
placed there, it
was to regulate not just the
surface waters but the waters
beneath the Earth themselves.
Because I think they could
have been going out of control.
Imagine tidal waves from
the inside of the Earth
as much as from the
outside of the Earth.
>> In our exploration
of the Younger Dryas,
we talked about how it could
have begun and what kind
of catastrophes that
befell our planet.
But what about its end?
What brought it to
such an abrupt end?
Well, let's turn our eye back
to this Galactic Federation,
a force so powerful, that
had technology so strong
that it could destroy an
entire planet as big as Tiamat.
What if they looked
upon our planet,
saw the destruction that had
been raging for over a thousand
years and said, OK,
we need to stop this.
We need to bring some
peace back to this planet.
How would they intervene?
What would they do to
mitigate the catastrophes that
were happening upon our planet
during the Younger Dryas?
And Swaruu tells
us that as a result
of the explosion of Tiamat,
the whole solar system
was thrown into disarray.
This caused an imbalance to the
Earth's orbit and axial tilt,
resulting in a great
number of catastrophes.
So in order to
help, the Federation
placed one of their
artificial biospheres
into Earth's orbit right
into the perfect location
to counterbalance the disarray
and stop the catastrophes.
Failure to stabilize
the Earth would
mean that our planet would
enter a more elliptical orbit,
creating a completely
uninhabitable environment.
Several traditions throughout
history after the Younger
Dryas, like the druids in
Europe and the pagan practices
in Rome, have legends
of moon ceremonies.
These rituals aided
in locking the moon
into the misunderstood
categories of witchcraft
and magic.
But what about the time when
the Atlantean empire was rapidly
colonizing the planet
over 12,000 years ago?
How different was this
planet, the rituals,
and the ancient sky
before the Younger Dryas?
There is little doubt that the
moon has an extreme influence
on the water of the
planet, but what
if this planet wasn't completely
covered with water yet?
Scientist and author
Hans Schindler Bellamy
illuminated carvings
from Tiwanaku
in Bolivia that were
believed to have been created
before the Younger Dryas and
the current moon was in place.
>> So when we look at
structures in Tiwanaku,
we see carvings that
talk about the moon.
On the calendar gate, we have
a very interesting inscription
that seems to suggest that a
smaller planetary body once
circled around the Earth
before the moon we see now
was put into place.
>> We have cultural traditions
that speak to a time before
the moon was in our orbit,
all the way from Indigenous
traditions, even
biblical traditions.
In the Book of Job, Job
25:5 speaks to a time
when the moon did
not shine, when
the moon was not in the sky.
Other Indigenous traditions
tell the same thing.
Are they preserving a
memory from their ancestors
that are telling
us in the only way
they know how, without the
writing on the pages of a book
per se, but they are
preserving a memory
of some time in the Earth's
history when we had no moon?
>> Throughout ancient mythology,
there have been several lunar
deities.
According to the
Greek poet Homer,
the region now known as Greece
was once called Arcadia.
The inhabitants of
that ancient land
are referred to as both the
Arcadians and Athenians.
Could the legends passed
down from this civilization
provide more clues to
a time before our moon
was in its current position
and a new goddess emerged?
>> Selena is the name of the
moon that was given to it
by the people in
classical times,
by the Greeks and by the Romans.
But there is a
reference to the people
who were devoted to her, who
were said to have existed even
before the time that the
moon existed in our sky.
And these were the Arcadians,
the people of Arcadia.
And they were said
to have been around
before the moon itself
actually rose into the skies.
We could be talking
about the peoples that
existed before the time
of a major cataclysm
with the most obvious one
being the Younger Dryas.
And I think that this brings
us certainly in the right area
that we should be
looking for answers to do
with these pre-Selenite
people, in other words, those
that existed before the
current moon shone in the sky.
>> In 43 BC, Ovid writes that
the Arcadians are older than
the moon.
So now we're coming up
into the time of Jesus,
where they're still talking
about this possibility
of a civilization, the
Arcadian civilization that
existed or is
older than the time
before the moon was
in Earth's orbit.
200 years after Aristotle,
we have Apollonius of Rhodes.
He's a librarian at the
Library of Alexandria.
He has access to all
the world's knowledge,
including texts that were
supposed to exist from the time
before the flood.
And he also believed that
the Arcadians lived in a time
when there was no moon.
The bottom line is that
they are accepting this idea
that the moon is something
new to human experience.
>> When we look at ancient
civilizations recording
the existence of the moon, one
of the earliest examples that
we see is what's called
the Disk of Nebra.
It's dated about 4000
BP, 4000 before present.
And it actually shows
the moon itself.
It shows the solstices.
This is one of the first
examples that we're seeing.
Civilizations before
this time do not
appear to be recording the
existence of the moon, at least
as we know it today.
There is evidence as well
in these ancient traditions
that the moon has not always
been at the location in space
as it is, that it
was actually closer
to our planet at one point and
now has moved further away.
All of this contributes
to the possibility
that this is not
a natural object,
that it is somehow an
ancient, engineered object.
>> In mythology, we have a
guy with the name of Enoch.
Enoch was taken away by
the extraterrestrials
into their mother spaceship.
And there one of the
extraterrestrials
says to the human, human,
look out at the window.
Do you see this little
light out there?
You humans call it moon, but
the moon has no light by itself.
The moon receives his
light from the sun.
And then he explains
why the moon sometimes
is full and half.
Now, simply this
statement, Stone Age time,
is a proof of
scientific information
because no human could
have known the moon has
its light from the sun.
You can prove simply
by a few phrases
that there was an
extraterrestrial influence.
>> Like the legends of the moon,
extraterrestrial influences
have also been mislabeled
and misunderstood.
But there are several
stories throughout the ages
where those from the
stars helped humanity
in various ways.
>> Swaruu tells us that the moon
is emitting a radiation field
around our planet.
A lot of the scientists
will refer to this
as the Van Allen
Belt. Scientists today
will tell you that this
Van Allen Belt of radiation
is caused through the
interplay of the sun
and the magnetic
fields of the Earth,
creating this electromagnetic
field around the Earth.
Swaruu gives us a
different perspective.
When we look to the moon as
part of a way of mitigating
the catastrophes of
the Younger Dryas,
Swaruu tells us that the moon
is emitting the Van Allen
Belt as a means of increasing
the density of the planet.
Now, regardless
of what you think
about what the Van Allen Belt
is, it is a measurable field.
It is detectable.
It is proven by science
that it is there,
but what is it
really doing for us?
>> When we think about all
that we know about the moon,
remember, when we
landed on the moon,
it rang like a bell
for three hours.
And we went back to the
moon and intentionally
crashed a spaceship
into the moon
just so we could measure this.
That is a dramatic
moment in human history
because it compels
us to look back
at these ancient myths,
what Ovid was saying,
what Anaxagoras, what
Aristotle, what Plutarch,
what all these Greek
philosophers were saying
about a previous
civilization that existed
before the moon was
in place, and now we
get this very technological
description of the moon.
It's hollow like a spaceship,
like some kind of a Death Star
perhaps even.
This is the picture that's
now being painted of the moon,
and in one instance, you
look at that and you think,
this is terrifying.
Because we're talking about,
what kind of a civilization
has the power to bring the
moon and put it so perfectly
in place, but then on the
other side, if you look at that
and you think, wow, what
kind of a civilization
has the power to do that?
They must love us
so much that they
put the moon in the exact
place that it needed
to be for Earth to
become stable once again,
and we are the benefactors
of that action.
>> I think the moon has
played a significant role
in our history, and I think it's
absolutely deserving of a lot
more study and open-minded
interpretation of some
of the ancient legends about it.
>> I think we owe it
to ourselves to go back
to the moon and do the
experiments with the best
science of the modern world
so that we can tell ourselves,
truthfully, honestly, factually,
is our moon a natural moon,
or has it been created
artificially by an intelligence
that placed it there
for our benefit?
And if so, what does
that mean for us today?